---
layout: post
title: Why Should I Justify My Place in the Conversation?
categories: Politics
description: The Moment I Realized My Perspective Was “Conditional
keywords: 2025 US Politics
---
## Why Should I Justify My Place in the Conversation?

### The Moment I Realized My Perspective Was “Conditional”
It started with a Facebook discussion about education policy. I reposted a teacher’s concerns about dismantling the education department and its impact on special education, I also supported my thoughts by data, court rulings, and historical context. But the response I got brought up my marital status and education. I was asked:

*“How long have you lived in the U.S.?”*

**The message was clear:** I needed to “prove” myself in conversations like these.

I live here, pay taxes, and am directly impacted by policies. That gives me just as much right to participate in these discussions as anyone else. My voice on issues like healthcare, immigration, or education matters just as much as anyone’s.

### The Real Fear Behind the Questions

**"When people ask for my 'credentials,' their real question is:**  *'Who gave you the right to speak?'"*

My perspective should not be dissmissed and is not less valid just because I’m an immigrant. My credibility should not be tied to my education, marriage, or how long I’ve spent here. 
Anyone can have Critical comments on a country's policies and culture, regardless of their background or how long they've lived there

### Critique Is Not Rejection
My critique of the country and its leadership decisions also seems to hurt people’s feelings.

But here’s the thing — critiquing a country isn’t rejection, I wouldn’t ask for a better place if I didn’t care about it.

I came here because the U.S. offers strong education, freedom of speech, and values like women’s rights, workers’ rights, and equality—the belief that everyone deserves dignity, no matter their gender, job, or skin color. One of the reasons I chose to stay was because I believed in those principles and felt secure.

But now, I worry those ideals are fading.

### Moving Forward
Despite the pushback, I will continue to speak up. I don't want to tear anything down, but to ask for a better place that we build together. I’ll do so on my website instead of engaging in Facebook debates.

I’m here. I care. My voice matters   and no one gets to decide whether that’s enough.

